# Android SDK Release Notes for 2.7.2

The following sections describe the changes made to the Flybits Android SDK from version 2.7.0 to 2.7.2. There were updates made to the SDK including numerous features SDK additions, as well as bug fixes and deprecated methods that have been removed as they are no longer supported by the SDK. In the event, that a change is not listed here please contact [support@flybits.com](mailto:support@flybits.com) for additional information.

## Updating of Google Play Services

In order to keep the Flybits SDK up to date with its dependencies, the Flybits team has successfully updated the SDK to be compatible with Google Play Service 10.0.0. As part of this update we have updated 4 packages to 10.0.0 from our previous 8.4.0. They are as follows:

* com.google.android.gms:play-services-fitness
* com.google.android.gms:play-services-gcm
* com.google.android.gms:play-services-location
* com.google.android.gms:play-services-maps

Due to these changes there may be some package dependencies that will need to be changed within your application. However, no major functionality should be affected and this should not result in any code changes with your interaction with the Flybits SDK. As part of this change to the library, the library is now compatible with google-service 3.0.0 which is defined in your application's build.gradle file under the com.google.gms:google-services:3.0.0 dependency classpath.

## Addition of Firbase

With the migration to Google Play Service 10.0.0, the Flybits SDK has now added support for Firebase Cloud Messaging (FCM). Therefore, the Flybits SDK now contains an additional 2 dependencies that allow Firebase Cloud Messaging to function correctly, they can be seen below.

* com.google.firebase:firebase-core:10.0.0
* com.google.firebase:firebase-messaging:10.0.0

In order to enable your application with FCM instead of GCM, the SDK now includes a "FIREBASE" option as part of the FlybitsOptions.GCMType enum type. This enum defines how the Flybits Library should retrieve the push token for the device as these push token need to be sent to the Flybits server. The FlybitsOptions.GCMType enum is only used when defining your application's FlybitsOptions.Builder(context) class under the enablePushNotifications(...) method.

For a complete guide on how you can enable your Flybits application with FCM please with our [Push Sample Wiki](https://github.com/flybits/AndroidPush/wiki/Project-Setup---FCM-(Firebase).

## Reporting APIs Throttling

In order to reduce the amount API requests that the SDK makes, a new mechanism has added to SDK to throttle the how often reporting SDK method such as updateContext(...). In order to facilitate this mechanism for Context reporting, the following method should now be used: updateContext(ContextData, String) all other update context method have been deprecated.
